Add YouTube & Media Capabilities user study post (#967)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/youtube-media-capabilities/index.md

---

> title: YouTube enhances UX with Media Capabilities Web API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: YouTube enhances UX with Media Capabilities API
```

I was wondering if it's possible to drop the word "Web" from the title because I think it may be implied.

Author: Done.

> subhead: Learn how Media Capabilities helped YouTube.

Reviewer: I noticed a lot of subheads start with "Learn how..." which looks a bit repetitive on the blog. I was wondering if we could try something that grabs the reader a bit more like: "How do you ensure buttery smooth playback when all your users are on different devices?" That's just a suggestion, feel free to go with something else.

I've found it's helpful to look at the subheads on https://medium.com/ for inspiration.

Author: It's definitely better. Thanks for the suggestion!

authors:
  - beaufortfrancois
date: 2019-06-05
hero: hero.jpeg
hero_position: top
alt: Youtube application screengrab
description: |
  In an experiment with the Media Capabilities API, YouTube saw a 7.1% increase
  in MTBR with only a 0.4% decrease in average resolution of videos served. 
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - media

>   - ux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - ux
  - case-study
```

Author: Done.

---

> title: YouTube enhances UX with Media Capabilities API

Author: I'll ask original authors what they think about this one.

> title: YouTube enhances UX with Media Capabilities API

Author: Authors think it's worth keeping it.

subhead: |

>   Ensure buttery smooth playback when your users are on different devices.

Author: Done.

authors:
  - beaufortfrancois
date: 2019-06-05
hero: hero.jpeg
hero_position: top

> alt: Youtube application screengrab

Author: Done.

description: |

>   In an experiment with the Media Capabilities API, YouTube saw a 7.1% increase

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Using the Media Capabilities API lets you better target video codecs, frame rates, and resolutions based on the capabilities of your users' devices.
```
This seems better aligned with the content of the article?

Author: Done.

>   in MTBR with only a 0.4% decrease in average resolution of videos served.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done.

tags:
  - post
  - media
  - ux
  - case-study
---

> In an experiment with the Media Capabilities API, YouTube saw a 7.1% increase in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In an experiment with the Media Capabilities API, YouTube saw a 7.1% increase in
```
I think this is supposed to be an abstract for the post, but I worry that it won't be clear without context. We mention a new API and drop a likely unfamiliar term (MTBR) without having established why those things are relevant to the reader. I'd suggest dropping this sentence and the following aside and just jumping into the problem.

Author: Done.

MTBR with only a 0.4% decrease in average resolution of videos served.

{% Aside 'key-term' %}
MTBR (Mean Time Between Rebuffers) is total play time divided by the number of
rebuffering events.
{% endAside %}

## The Problem

> Typically, media sites will have several variants that they can present users,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Typically, media sites have several variants of each video that they can present to users,
```
I'm inferring from the article that the focus here is video, not audio, and I thought it'd be good to make that explicit. Also, it prevents any momentary confusion about what kinds of variants we're talking about.

Author: Done.

> encoded in different frame rates, resolutions, and codecs. Until recently, while

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
encoded in different frame rates, resolutions, and codecs. Until recently,
```

Author: Done.

> choosing which variant to play for an individual user, web developers had to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
web developers had to
```

Author: Done.

rely solely on `isTypeSupported()` or `canPlayType()` to determine whether each

> variant could be played in that user’s browser. While this told the developer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
variant could be played in an individual user’s browser. While this approach told the developer
```
This and the edits to the two preceding lines are intended to streamline the sentence.

Author: Done.

whether media could be played at all, it didn’t provide an indication of

> playback quality, such as whether the media playback would experience frame

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
playback quality, such as whether there would be frame
```
For concision and to avoid misattribution of the verb. (The user experiences things, not the media playback.)

Author: Done.

> drops or rapidly drain the device’s battery. In the absence of this signal,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
drops or device battery drain. Without this information,
```
First edit finishes proposed change from previous line. Second edit intended to reduce reading level.

Author: Done.

> developers either had to create their own heuristics, or just assume that if a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
developers either had to create their own heuristics or just assume that if a
```
Comma isn't needed in a compound verb.

Author: Done.

> device could playback a codec/resolution combination, it could do so smoothly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
device could play a codec/resolution combination, it could do so smoothly
```
"Playback" is a noun, per Merriam-Webster.

Author: Done.

> and power efficiently. For users with less capable devices, this often led to a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and with power efficiency. For users with less capable devices, this often led to a
```
To avoid syntactic ambiguity.

Author: Done.

> very poor experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
poor experience.
```
For concision.

Author: Done.

## The Solution

The [Media Capabilities](https://wicg.github.io/media-capabilities/) API allows
websites to get more information about the client’s video decode performance and
make an informed decision about which codec and resolution to deliver to the

> user. Specifically, the API provides the developer with an estimate of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
user. Specifically, the API provides the developer with an estimate of the
```

Author: Done.

smoothness and power efficiency of a particular codec and resolution
combination. This allows the developer to avoid scenarios where the client is
likely to have a poor playback experience.

In Chrome, the Media Capabilities API uses metrics from previous playbacks to
predict whether future playbacks in the same codec and at the same resolution
will be smoothly decoded.

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">

>   <img src="./maxime-rossignol-266384-unsplash.jpg" alt="Computer motherboard near graphics card">

Reviewer 2: The relevance of this image to the textual content isn't totally clear (to me). Is it possible to include an image that's more obviously related? For example, a visualization of how the Media Capabilities API establishes the threshold for when playback is considered smooth?

Author: This image features a Graphics Processing Unit which is actually one of the strongest signals to know a video will be decoded smoothly or not.

Reviewer 2: True, it does include a GPU, but there's no indication of which thing in the photo is the GPU. (And the GPU isn't even in the foreground; the CPU cooler is.) But, aside from that, I'd still argue that this isn't immediately related to the text, which is about using an API to improve video playback--not about, e.g., selecting a GPU for your custom PC build. I really think it'd be a meaningful improvement if we used an image that illustrated a key concept from the text instead.

Reviewer: I don't know much about hardware so the relevance of the image was a bit lost on me 😅
I think if we don't have another relevant image on hand then it's ok to remove this.

Author: I've removed it then.

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">
    Fig. 1 — Computer motherboard near graphics card
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## YouTube Case Study

YouTube used the [Media
Capabilities](https://wicg.github.io/media-capabilities/) API to prevent their
adaptive bitrate algorithm from automatically selecting resolutions that a

> device could not playback smoothly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
device could not play smoothly.
```
"Playback" is a noun, per Merriam-Webster.

Author: Done.

Users who were part of the experimental group collectively saw less frequent

> rebuffers (the meantime between rebuffers, or MTBR, increased by 7.1%) while the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
rebuffers (the mean time between rebuffers, or MTBR, increased by 7.1%) while the
```
BTW, I think this is a better way to define the term: the definition occurs inline, proximal to its first use, so readers don't have to momentarily wonder what MTBR is.

Author: Done.

average resolution, measured by video height, served to the aggregate group only
declined by 0.4%. The substantial increase in the MTBR with the small
corresponding reduction in average resolution indicates that this change
significantly improved quality for a small subset of users who previously had a
poor experience.

## Implementing Media Capabilities API on your site

> {% Aside 'codelab' %}

Reviewer 2: Since this isn't really a codelab, I don't think I'd put it in a codelab aside, FWIW. Maybe just have a sentence in the body copy with this link?

Author: Done.
